---
layout: post
title: Book Review: Bullsh\*t Jobs
categories: [book-review]
image:
  - src: bsjobs.png
    alt: Bullsh*t Jobs Book Cover
---

children play games and create imaginary worlds to fulfill fundamendtal need to have influence on the world/surroundings

the impact of the economy on homeless rates points to the root cause of homelessness being economic rather than moral/personal issue

why do people take bs jobs?
why does the economy seem to benefit from bs jobs/what economic forces made this happen?
why aren't people largely thinking of this as a societal problem?

A lottt more effort is placed on financial machinations rather than actually creating things or providing real services. For example, GM makes more money from car loan finances than making cars

wtfhappenedin1971.com -- there was a "Keynesian agreement" prior to 1971 where increases in worker productity (and profits as a result) then caused an increase in worker pay. The top 1% has become closer to a ruling class while the pay for hourly workers has stayed level.

Schools are increasingly being designed to prepare people for future jobs, and the end-result of this line of thinking is that all education and mother's love and such are just to keep the labor pool going.

"If you spend your working life caring for others, then you will end up so underpaid and deeply in debt that you won't be able to care for your own family".

a six month bank strike in Irelland fiiiiiiiine but ten day garbage coooooooooollecttor stricke iwk ended with nnnnnnew york appppologizing profuuuseeeeeeeeeeeely

G.A. Cohen says that everyone should get the same income. Following questions:

- Talents are called "gifts", why pay people more for already having a benefit? (Dumb argument about gifts being a benefit to the individual)
- People that work harder than others do so because of a "gift" of work, similar to above
- Need to determine if harder workers are doing so from a gift, for selfish reasons, or for altruistic reasons. This is not black-and-white, we can't divide individuals into groups like this.
- If someone works harder for altruistic reasons, giving them more income in response would contradict their goal of improving the lives of others

## The impact of FOSS on job responsibilities

The proliferation of B.S. jobs has made it so that it is often unrealistic to expect to be paid to do interesting work. This is one (of many) factors that has pushed the interesting tasks for software development to FOSS developers. FOSS developers will work on interesting tasks for free outside of work to combat the lack of mental stimulation from their BS jobs. That FOSS software is used by their company and others to provide the components that "duct-taper" software engineers will drudgingly string together to make products. This is a vicious cycle that makes itself more prevalent over time.

This same cycle also seems to be occurring with journalism, although idk if I want to include that really

---

Most working class jobs are "caring labor" or emotionally draining BS work. The roles serve primarily to encourage others and deal with their emotional issues, even workers like subway attendants that wouldn't seem like it.

BS jobs are invented to keep up the false idea that each individual must "justify his right to exist" in a Malthusian, Darwinian sense.

## The paradox of modern work

Most people's sense of dignity and self-worth is caught up in working for a living, but they hate their jobs.

Pain from work justifies consumerism and consumerism becomes more trivial and materialistic to fit the small time slots in the day left after work

Marx pointed out that the idea of optimizing for creating overall societal wealth is new as of the industrial revolution, prior to this it was about creating great people (see Aristotle and such)

## UBI

the value of labor cannot be properly quantified, trying to relate income to value provided is impossible

The current state of affairs with a managerial class is perpetuated by the fact that political leaders are naturally part of that group and are becoming increasingly friendly with the financial sector that enables their success in reelection
